README.md, before:

# SSM Vault

SSM Vault is a lightweight tool for using [AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html) from CLI.

SSM Vault can be used to store credentials in AWS and retrieve them for development or in production.  It allows you to show stored parameters in tree views, embed parameters in configuration files, and expose parameters as environment variables.

## Documentation

- [Usage](USAGE.md)

## Installation

Use Homebrew on macOS.  See "[Installation](USAGE.md#installation)" for other environments.

```
$ brew tap k24d/ssm-vault
$ brew install ssm-vault
```

## Basic Usage

```bash
# Store a secret value as SecureString (encrypted)
$ ssm-vault write /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD
Enter secret: ********

# Store a text value as String (plain text)
$ ssm-vault write /app/dev/DB_USERNAME -s
Enter text: dbuser

# Show parameters in tree format
$ ssm-vault tree
.
└── /app/
    └── dev/
        ├── DB_PASSWORD🔐 (alias/aws/ssm)
        └── DB_USERNAME

# Copy a value to clipboard
$ ssm-vault c /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD
Copied to clipboard: /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD

# Get a value in shell scripts
$ export MYSQL_PWD=`ssm-vault read /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD`

# Render template and output to a file (mode 0600 by default)
$ ssm-vault render -o ~/.my.cnf <<EOT
[client]
user={{aws_ssm_parameter "/app/dev/DB_USERNAME"}}
password={{aws_ssm_parameter "/app/dev/DB_PASSWORD"}}
EOT

$ cat ~/.my.cnf
[client]
user=dbuser
password=MY-SUPER-SECRET

# Execute a command with environment variables
$ ssm-vault exec -p /app/dev -- env | grep DB_
DB_PASSWORD=MY-SUPER-SECRET
DB_USERNAME=dbuser
```

Commit message:

Add more descriptions for Docker

README.md, after:

# SSM Vault

SSM Vault is a lightweight tool for using [AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html) from CLI.

You can use SSM Vault to store credentials in AWS and retrieve them during development or in production.  It allows you to show parameters in tree views, embed parameters in configuration files, and expose parameters as environment variables.

## Documentation

- [Usage](USAGE.md)
- [Docker with SSM Parameter Store](DOCKER.md)

## Installation

Use Homebrew on macOS.  See "[Installation](USAGE.md#installation)" for other environments.

```
$ brew tap k24d/ssm-vault
$ brew install ssm-vault
```

## Basic Usage

```bash
# Store a secret value as SecureString (encrypted)
$ ssm-vault write /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD
Enter secret: ********

# Store a text value as String (plain text)
$ ssm-vault write /app/dev/DB_USERNAME -s
Enter text: dbuser

# Show parameters in tree format
$ ssm-vault tree
.
└── /app/
    └── dev/
        ├── DB_PASSWORD🔐 (alias/aws/ssm)
        └── DB_USERNAME

# Copy a value to clipboard
$ ssm-vault c /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD
Copied to clipboard: /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD

# Get a value in shell scripts
$ export MYSQL_PWD=`ssm-vault read /app/dev/DB_PASSWORD`

# Render template and output to a file (mode 0600 by default)
$ ssm-vault render -o ~/.my.cnf <<EOT
[client]
user={{aws_ssm_parameter "/app/dev/DB_USERNAME"}}
password={{aws_ssm_parameter "/app/dev/DB_PASSWORD"}}
EOT

$ cat ~/.my.cnf
[client]
user=dbuser
password=MY-SUPER-SECRET

# Execute a command with environment variables
$ ssm-vault exec -p /app/dev -- env | grep DB_
DB_PASSWORD=MY-SUPER-SECRET
DB_USERNAME=dbuser
```

See "[Usage](USAGE.md)" for details of available commands.  See "[Docker with SSM Parameter Store](DOCKER.md)" for how to use SSM Vault to access secrets from Docker containers during development.
